# Step 0 - Getting Started

[ << ReadMe](../README.md)

The repository already has a few items present, so at this point lets quickly
review what they are.

## Makefile

The makefile is used to actually run Terraform.  You can run it directly with
the `terraform` command, however the makefile wraps commands a little to make
things simpler.

There are only three commands of major interest:

### make

Just running `make` will execute a Terraform plan.  This will show you exactly
what Terraform is going to do in term of adding, removing or modifying resources
in AWS.

### make apply

Running `make apply` will apply your plan.  If there is no plan, or the plan is
stale (i.e. has already been applied) Terraform will notify you and stop

### make destroy

Running `make destroy` will remove all resources from AWS.  You will be prompted
to confirm this before it acts upon your request

### Configuration

The makefile configures things suich as the environment name and stack name,
which is used to create the name of the Terraform state file (stored in S3).

You will need to add your name to the `STACK` variable on line 17, e.g.:

```
STACK=<your_name>
```

## meta.tf

Terraform uses Terraform code to configure itself.  The meta.tf file contains
resources for Terraform configuration.

The main `terraform` block configures the AWS provider and where the state file
will be stored (along with some CLI parameters to specify the state file name)

The `provider` block sets the region we will be working in.

The two data objects `aws_caller_identity` and `aws_region` are helpers which
are used in the code

Finally two variables are defined which are passed in on the command line.
These allow us to externally set our region and environment name which can be
helpful when you are deploying the same code in multiple environments

## variables.tf

To keep code tidy, your variables should be declared in this file.  One
important variable is already defined, but does not have a value.  Please add
the following below the `description` attribute using your own name:

```
  default = "barney"
```

## outputs.tf

This file contains variables to be output.  These are useful as a user, but can 
also be used to pass information between Terraform code bases.

Here we output the URL we will be using to access the API built in this course.

## dns.tf

The `Sandbox` account already has a DNS zone created, named
`sandbox.anthropos.io`.  In order to add records to it, this file contains a
`data` object which Terraform uses to look up the zone infromation we will need
to create DNS records

## acm.tf

Our API will be using HTTPS.  Inorder to do this we need to ensure we're using a
valid SSL certificate.

A Wildcard certificate for `*.sandbox.anthropos.io` is already present in the
account, so this file contains a data object to give us easy access to its
details

## api.tf

Since the aim of the course is to learn about Lambda functions, we're cheating a
little bit here.  The base API Gateway implementation is already defined, but
under normal circumstances I would suggest using the module in GitLab at
[terraform-aws-apigw-http-api](http://gitlab.aws.anthropos.io/open/terraform-aws-apigw-http-api)

In particular we will be using the AWS API Gateway HTTP APIs.  There are also
WebSocket and REST API types available, but these are far more complicated
(although extremely powerful).  

[Step 1 - Deploying What We Have](./1.md)