# Attach the Lambda function to the API Route
[ << Step 2](./2.md)

Currently we have an API with its own domain name.  We also have a Lambda
function which returns our Hello World HTML.  In this section we will wire the
two together.

## Create our Route

API routes can be managed in a variety of ways.  We can have one function handle
all request, or only some, or ideally, just one!

There's quite a lot we can do, but for our purposes we just want to use the
`$default` route which is the fallback which API gateway will use if no other
route is found.

Create a new file called `default_route.tf`.

## The Integration

The integration is a special mapping telling API gateway how to take the
incoming request, and transform it to pass to another AWS service (in our case
Lambda).

The parameters here refer to the Lambda service rather than to our API itself,
for example to execute a lambda, a POST api call is required from API Gateway to
Lambda.

```
resource "aws_apigatewayv2_integration" "default_integration" {
  api_id           = aws_apigatewayv2_api.api.id
  integration_type = "AWS_PROXY"

  connection_type      = "INTERNET"
  description          = "Default Route Handler"
  integration_method   = "POST"
  integration_uri      = aws_lambda_function.default_lambda.invoke_arn
  passthrough_behavior = "WHEN_NO_MATCH"
}
```

## The Route

The route describes which API this route is for, the path (`$default` in this
case), and the integration which will handle the route.

```
resource "aws_apigatewayv2_route" "default_route" {
  api_id    = aws_apigatewayv2_api.api.id
  route_key = "$default"
  target    = "integrations/${aws_apigatewayv2_integration.default_integration.id}"
}
```

## Review

OK, so we have an API, and we have a Lambda function, and we now have a Route
with its Intgration to pass requests and responses between the two.

Try visiting the API URL again to see what happens...

[Step 4 - Permissions](./4.md)